>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
MAY 25th, PRESIDENT OBAMA MAKE
A SURPRISE VISIT TO AFGHANISTAN.
THE LATEST ON THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION IN UKRAINE.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS FROM
KIEV
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, HO
MEXICO IS BATTLING OBESITY B
RAISING TAXES ON CERTAIN FOODS
>> WE'RE DOING A LOT O
EDUCATION PROBLEMS TO CHANGE THE
HABITS OF PEOPLE, BUT WE ARE
ALSO USING TAXES CAN BE POWERFUL
INCENTIVES
>> AND ON MEMORIAL DAY WEEKEND
A U.S. VETERAN WITH A DIFFEREN
WAY OF SEEING THE PEOPLE AROUN
HIM.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
>>> FROM THE STUDIOS IN LINCOL
CENTER, NEW YORK, HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS SPENDING PART
OF MEMORIAL DAY IN AFGHANISTAN
HE WAS GREETED AT THE BAGRAM AIR
BASE
THE TRIP WAS NOT ANNOUNCED AHEAD
OF TIME.
DURING THE BRIEF SURPRISE VISI
HE MET WITH U.S. TROOPS AN
CONFERRED WITH MILITAR
COMMANDERS
THE WHITE HOUSE SOUGHT TO QUEL
SPECULATION THAT THE VISIT IN IN
RESPONSE TO THE V.A. SCANDAL
NEW DETAILS EMERGED WITH THE
22-YEAR-OLD MAN ACCUSED OF
CARRYING OUT THE DEADLY RAMPAG
IN CALIFORNIA.
POLICE SAY ELLIOTT RODGERS
FATALLY STABBED THREE MEN IN HIS
APARTMENT THEN PROWLED THE
STREETS WOUNDING 13 AND KILLIN
3 OTHERS BEFORE SHOOTING HIMSELF
IN THE HEAD.
POLICE FOUND THREE SEMIAUTOMATIC
HANDGUNS IN HIS VEHICLE AL
PURCHASED LEGALLY.
IN A SERIES OF YOUTUBE VIDEO
AND IN A 140-PAGE MANIFESTO,
RODGERS OUTLINED HIS ISOLATION
AND THE WOMEN WHO REJECTED HIM
POLICE VISITED HIS APARTMENT
LAST MONTH
THIS WEEKEND A LOCAL SHERIFF
SAID AT THE TIME OF THOSE VISITS
HIS DEPUTIES FOUND RODGER POLITE
AND TIMID.
>>> IN ARIZONA FIREFIGHTERS AR
STRUGGLING TO CONTAIN FIRES.
THE FIRES HAVE BURNED THROUG
MORE THAN 11,000 ACRES NORTH O
PHOENIX BETWEEN SEDONA AND
FLAGSTAFF.
THEY EXPECT THE FIRES WILL MOR
THAN DOUBLE IN SIZE BEFORE THE
GET THEM UNDER CONTROL
AFTER MONTHS OF POLITICAL UNREST
AND VIOLENCE, UKRAINIANS HAV
APPARENTLY ELECTED A 48-YEAR-OLD
BILLIONAIRE PETRO POROSHENKO
THERE LIKELY WILL NOT BE THE
NEED FR A RUNOFF
THERE WAS A HEAVY TURNOUT IN THE
EUROPEAN-LEANING WESTERN PART OF
THE UKRAINE BUT IN THE EAS
PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS BLOCKED
POLLING STATIONS AND SMASHED
BALLOT BOXES
>>> ON THE SECOND DAY OF HIS
VISIT TO THE MIDDLE EAST, POPE
FRANCIS MET WITH PALESTINIAN
LEADER MAHMOUD ABBAS AND THE
MADE AN UNANNOUNCED VISIT TO THE
BARRIER ISRAEL ERECTED THA
SURROUNDS MUCH OF BETHLEHEM.
HE INVITED ABBAS AND SHIMO
PERES FOR A MEETING AT THE
VATICAN NEXT MONTH
BOTH ACCEPTED THE INVITATION
THE POPE WILL COMPLETE HIS TRI
WITH A VISIT TO JERUSALEM.
>>> IN BRUSSELS FLOWERS WERE
LEFT OUTSIDE THE JEWISH MUSEUM
WHERE FOUR WERE GUNNED DOW
YESTERDAY.
POLICE ARE INVESTIGATING IT AS A
HATE CRIME
>>> FOR MUCH MORE ABOUT TODAY'
VOTING IN UKRAINE, WE'RE JOINE
FROM KIEV BY "NEWS HOUR'S"
MARGARET WARNER WHO IS INSID
THE CENTRAL ELECTION COMMISSIO
THERE.
WE HEARD ABOUT POROSHENKO'S WIN.
WHY IS THIS MARGIN OF VICTORY SO
SIGNIFICANT?
>> HARI, IT'S HUGE BECAUSE THE
MORE AND MORE WE TALK TO VOTER
HERE IN UKRAINE, THE MORE AN
MORE THERE WAS A GROUNDSWELL
THAT THIS COUNTRY'S IN SUC
DIFFICULT AND DESPERATE SHAP
THAT IT NEEDS A NEW PRESIDEN
NOW.
IT CAN'T EVEN AFFORD TO WAIT
THREE MORE WEEKS TO HAVE A
RUNOFF
AND SO I TALKED TO VOTERS WH
HAD DIFFERENT EMOTIONAL VOICES
BETWEEN THE CANDIDATES BUT
POROSHENKO RAN THIS CAMPAIGN I
PART BASED ON INEVITABILITY AN
THE MORE AND MORE IT GREW TH
MORE VOTERS DECIDED -- ONE YOUNG
MAN SAID TO ME, WE'RE ON THE
VERGE OF WAR
PUTIN HAS DESIGNS ON UKRAINE AND
WE NEED SOMEBODY WHO CAN TAK
CHARGE NOW
THAT'S WHERE THE MARGIN IS
IMPORTANT AND ALSO THE TURNOUT
IF YOU LOOK AT THE SCREEN, I
WAS HUGE
NOT ONLY IN THE 70% AND OVER I
THE WEST, BUT EVEN IN TH
CENTRAL PART, NOT ONLY AROUN
KIEV BUT A LOT OF HEAVIL
RUSSIAN-SPEAKING AREAS, THE ONLY
TWO GRAY ZONES WHERE THEY DON'
HAVE ENOUGH DATA ARE THE TWO
AREASES THAT THE RUSSIAN-BACKE
SEPARATISTS RAN THIS CAMPAIGN OF
INTIMIDATION THAT WE REPORTED SO
MUCH ON THIS WEEK.
THAT MAKES IT SIGNIFICANT.
AND MAKES HIS WIN UNASSAILABLE
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ISSUES THAT HE
FACES WITH THE SEPARATISTS I
THE EAST
>> GREAT QUESTION, HARI.
I ACTUALLY RACED OVER TO HIS
HEADQUARTERS TONIGHT AFTER THE
EXIT POLLS CAME OUT.
AND HE WAS JUST SPEAKING TO TH
PRESS, AND HE SAID, MY FIRST
VISIT WILL BE TO THE DONSPACH,
THE COAL, METAL PRODUCING AREA
IN THE EAST.
HE WANTS TO ASSURE THEM THAT
THEY HAVE A PLACE IN UKRAINE
THEY'RE THE POOREST SECTION OF
THE COUNTRY, BUT WE'LL RESPECT
THEIR RUSSIAN LANGUAGE
SO ON ONE HAND HE'S PUTTING OU
A HAND
AMNESTY EVEN FOR SEPARATISTS
BUT THOSE WHO HAVE KILLE
PEOPLE, THERE WILL NOT B
AMNESTY AND WE'RE GOING TO -
THAT WILL NOT CONTINUE
HE'S MADE IT CLEAR THAT HE WANTS
A MORE MUSCULAR APPROACH T
ARMED SEPARATISTS, TO TH
RUSSIAN OPERATIVES THEY BELIEV
ARE OPERATING THERE WHO AR
RUSSIAN-BACK OR RUSSIAN PAID
ULTRASEPARATISTS AND ALSO THES
CRIMINAL GANGS AND ELEMENTS THAT
WERE HIRED ON BY THAT CROWD.
SO I THINK YOU'RE GOING TO SEE
PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR DOING THIS IN
THE REST OF UKRAINE EVEN IF IT
COSTS SOME LIVES TO GO AHEAD AND
TAKE THEM ON MILITARILY.
I'M NOT SAYING TOMORROW.
HE'S GOING TO MAKE AN OFFER, BUT
TIME IS RUNNING OUT.
>> WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT HIM
PERSONALLY BESIDES HE MADE ALL
HIS MILLIONS AND BILLIONS IN
SELLING CHOCOLATE?
>> AND YOU KNOW, FUNNY THING
HARI, I JUST LEARNED LAST NIGH
HE'S DIABETIC AND CAN'T EAT HI
OWN CHOCOLATE, WHICH I
FANTASTIC.
HE MADE BILLIONS IN CHOCOLAT
AND IN MANY OTHER BUSINESSES
HE'S KNOWN, THOUGH, AS A
PRAGMATIST, A VERY PRAGMATIC
HE'S BEEN FINANCE MINISTER
FOREIGN MINISTER, HE'S BEE
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE
HE DOES A LOT OF BUSINESS IN
RUSSIAN EVEN THOUGH PUTIN SHUT
DOWN ONE OF HIS CHOCOLATE PLANTS
WHEN HE SIDED WITH THE UPRISIN
OVER THE WINTER.
ON THE OTHER HAND HE DOE
BUSINESS WITH THE EUROPEANS.
AND FOLKS WE TALKED TO TODAY
LIKE THAT COMBINATION IN HIM
HE DOESN'T STIR DEEP FEELING
BUT THERE IS A SENSE THAT HE'S A
VERY PRAGMATIC GUY, THAT HE'
NOT GOING TO TAKE UKRAINE OVER A
CLIFF IN ONE DIRECTION O
ANOTHER AND THAT HE'S PROBABLY
THE MOST ASTUTE AND SAVVY OF THE
BUNCH.
>> SO YOU'VE BEEN REPORTING FROM
UKRAINE FOR THE PAST WEEK, FRO
THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY,
NOW YOU'RE IN THE CAPITAL.
HOW DO YOU DISTILL THE
DIFFERENCES IN THESE TWO BIG
REGIONS?
>> WELL, YOU MEAN TODAY OR I
GENERAL?
I MEAN, THE DIFFERENCES IN THE
REGIONS ARE PRETTY AMAZING
WE'VE BEEN OVER IN THE EAST
LOT IN MARCH AND NOW AND I
REALLY IS FOR COAL MINERS, I
DON'T KNOW, THINK OF PITTSBURG
OR WEST VIRGINIA IN THE '50s AND
THEY WORK VERY, VERY HARD AN
THERE'S SO MUCH CORRUPTION AND
SO MUCH SKIMMING OF TH
SUBSIDIES THAT THEY DON'T SE
MUCH OF IT
THE REST OF UKRAINE IS REALL
MOVING IN A EUROPEAN MODEL
I SAY TODAY THE DIFFERENCE WAS
SURREAL.
THE VOTING PLACES IN KIEV WERE
ABSOLUTELY RAN LIKE CLOCKWORK.
AT THE SAME TIME I WAS CALLING
AND TEXTING WITH OFFICIALS I
KNEW BACK IN DONETSK AND LUHANSK
AND IT WAS CHAOS AND MOST DIDN'T
EVEN DARE TO OPEN.
>> MARGARET WARNER IN KIEV
THANKS SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE, HARI
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
WE THOUGHT THIS HOLIDAY WEEKEN
WHEN MILLIONS OF AMERICANS GO TO
BARBECUES WAS A GOOD TIME TO
REBROADCAST THIS STORY WE FIRS
BROUGHT YOU IN DECEMBER.
THAT'S BECAUSE IT'S ABOU
OBESITY.
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS SUFFER
FROM IT AS DO MILLIONS O
MEXICANS
THAT NATION RECENTLY LAUNCHED AN
AMBITIOUS NATIONAL PROGRAM T
COMBAT THE PROBLEM
ITS BIGGEST COMPONENT,
INCREASING TAXES ON FOODS LOADED
WITH SATURATED FATS AND SUGARY
DRINKS
IT'S ALL BEING DONE WITH THE
ASSISTANCE OF FORMER NEW YOR
CITY MAYOR MICHAEL BLOOMBERG
MARTIN FLETCHER REPORTS.
♪♪
>> Reporter: EVERY SUNDAY MEXICO
CITY TENS OF THOUSANDS ANSWE
THEIR PRESIDENT'S CHALLENGE TO
EXERCISE ONE HOUR A DAY.
MEXICO'S HEALTH MINISTRY SAY
ITS CITIZENS ARE TOO FAT
YOGA CLASSES ON THE CITY'S MAI
REFORMA AVENUE
NEARBY ZUMBA, FIVE STRAIGH
HOURS OF LATIN AMERICAN DANC
AND AEROBICS ALL OVERSEEN BY
HORATIO DE LA VEGA, A MEXICA
PENT ATH LEITH
>> YOU SEE THAT 30% OF MEXICAN
ARE OBESE.
YOU'RE AN OLYMPIC ATHLETE.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT
>> IT'S A VERY IMPORTANT
PROBLEM.
IT'S SAD THAT WE CAME TO THIS,
BUT IT HAS A LOT TO DO WIT
EDUCATION, WITH THE CULTURE AN
WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE A LOT O
EFFORT TO MAKE THIS REVERSE.
>> Reporter: WE MET DIAN
CARDONA AT THE ZUMBA DANCE, THIS
MOTHER HAS STRUGGLED WITH HE
WEIGHT HER WHOLE LIFE.
ZUMBA HAS HELPED HER LOSE 20
POUNDS
SHE'S HOPING TO LOSE 20 MORE
THE ZOOM BA CLASS IS CERTAINLY
HARD TO RESIST
A CATCHY PART OF WHAT MEXICO
CALLS ITS THREE PILLARS TO FIGHT
OBESITY.
SO THIS IS PILLAR NUMBER ONE
MORE EXERCISE FOR THE PEOPLE
I THINK I'VE LOST A LITTLE BIT
OF WEIGHT.
AFTER MORE SPORTS, COMES NUMBE
TWO, A HEALTHIER DIET.
BUT IT'S PILLAR NUMBER THREE
THAT HAS THE WHOLE WORLD
WATCHING
TAXATION OF JUNK FOOD.
WITH 1.5 BILLION PEOPL
OVERWEIGHT AROUND THE GLOBE,
MEXICO'S BATTLE OF THE BULGE HAS
BECOME A TEST CASE IN THE FIGH
AGAINST OBESITY.
THE NEW TAXES ARE 8% ON FOOD
HIGH IN SATURATED FAT, SUGAR AND
SALT, LIKE SWEET BREADS AN
CAKES AND 9% ON SUGARY DRINK
LIKE COCA-COLA
>> WE DO HAVE A LOT OF HEALT
PROBLEMS TO CHANGE THE HABITS OF
PEOPLE, BUT WE'RE ALSO USING
INCENTIVES
AND TAXES CAN BE POWERFU
I'M AN ECONOMIST SO I BELIEVE IN
INCENTIVES
THEY SHOULD HAVE AN EFFECT O
WHAT PEOPLE SELECT TO EAT AN
DRINK.
>> Reporter: COMMERCIALS POUND
THE MESSAGE, EXERCISE AND EA
HEALTHY EVERY DAY.
SIMILAR TO THE NEW YORK MESSAG
OF FORMER MAYOR MICHAE
BLOOMBERG.
THAT'S NO COINCIDENCE.
HIS PHILANTHROPIC ORGANIZATION
HAS PLEDGED MONEY TO AID
MEXICO'S ANTI-OBESITY CAMPAIGN
THE BEVERAGE ASSOCIATION SAI
THAT SINCE TAXES WERE INTRODUCED
JANUARY 1st THIS YEAR,
CONSUMPTION IS ALREADY DOWN 5%
BUT HE BELIEVES IT LOT GO UP
AGAIN.
>> WE'RE NOT CONVINCED THAT BY
PUTTING A NEW TAX FOR SOME
DRINKS IN ADDITION TO OTHE
TAXES THAT THEY ALREADY PAY IS
GOING TO BE A SOLUTION
THE REASON IS THAT IT'S AN OLD
CUSTOM IN MEXICO TO DRINK SOFT
DRINKS
>> Reporter: BUT THAT'S TH
POINT, REDUCE THE CONSUMPTION OF
SUGAR BECAUSE SUGAR LEADS TO
OBESITY.
>> IF YOU DRINK THE DRINKS THA
ARE BOTTLED THEN WHY NOT THE
OTHER ONES
THERE'S AN INEQUITABLE
SITUATION.
THE TAX MIGHT BE
UNCONSTITUTIONAL
YOU CANNOT TAX SOME PRODUCTS AND
THE OTHER ONES NOT
>> Reporter: WHAT HE'S GETTING
AT, THE NEW TAX ONLY LEVIE
EXTRA PESOS ON CANNED DRINKS AND
FATTY SNACKS, NOT THOSE SOLD O
THE STREET
MEXICANS DRINK MORE COCA-COL
PER CAPITA THAN ANYONE ELSE IN
THE WORLD.
VISITING A MOBILE HEALTH CLINIC,
MARIA HAS HAD HYPERTENSION FOR
23 YEARS AND DIABETES FOR 5.
HOW MUCH COCA-COLA DO YOU DRIN
EVERY DAY?
FOR THE FAMILY, THREE LITERS
SHE SAYS
THREE LITERS A DAY
ONE LITER A DAY EACH PERSON?
SHE SAYS, YES, IT'S BAD.
AND TORTILLA AND BREAD
THAT'S WHAT MAKES US FAT
MEXICO'S COCA-COLA FRANCHISE
DECLINED OUR REQUEST
BUT THE SOFT DRINK COMPANIES ARE
NOT THE ONLY CULPRITS IN THE
OBESITY PROBLEM.
THE AMOUNT OF SHUG ARE IN THES
DRINKS
>> MAYBE IT'S THE AMOUNT O
SUGAR, BUT IT'S THE ONLY ENERG
THAT THEY CONSUME.
THEY EAT OR THEY DRINK
SO NO PROBLEM.
AND IF THEY EXERCISE, NO PROBLEM
AT ALL
IT'S VERY EXPENSIVE TO BUY
FRUIT, TO BUY VEGETABLES
SO THEY ARE ONLY EATING FRIE
FOOD
>> Reporter: WITH 50% OF
MEXICANS LIVING BELOW TH
POVERTY LINE, COST IS CRITICAL
DOESN'T IT JUST MAKE IT MORE
EXPENSIVE FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T AFFORD TO BUY ANYTHING
ELSE
>> THE TAXES ARE ONLY TAXING
HIGH CALORIE FOODS AND SUGAR
DRINKS
ALL THE FOODS AND DRINKS
AVAILABLE THAT ARE TAXED
>> Reporter: PERHAPS EASIER SAID
THAN DONE ESPECIALLY IN
COUNTRY WHERE LOCALS EVEN SH
AWAY FROM THE TAP WATER OFTE
LEAVING BOTTLED DRINKS AS TH
ONLY OPTION.
BACK AT HOME, DIANA FROM ZUMBA
CLASS HAS HEARD THE GOVERNMENT
A MESSAGE LOUD AND CLEAR
SHE'S CHANGED HER EATING HABIT
OVER THE PAST YEAR
THE CHILDREN EAT RICE, TOMATOES,
PEAS, TORTILLA AND GUACAMOLE
A YEAR AGO FRIES, TAKE-AWA
PIZZAS, HAMBURGERS, CANS O
COLA
IF I HADN'T GONE ON THE DIET
SHE SAYS, I'D BE THIS BIG.
LOOK AT THE BADGE BEHIND HER
THAT'S SPANISH FOR I FEE
MAGNIFICENT.
IT'S TOO EARLY TO SAY WHAT THE
EFFECT OF TAXATION WILL BE AS
TOOL AGAINST OBESITY, EVEN A
SUPPORTERS SAY AN INCREASE OF 8%
TO 10% IS NOT ENOUGH, BUT TH
GOVERNMENT ARGUES IT'S THE
MESSAGE THAT COUNTS, HEALTHY
EATING SAVES LIVES
IN A LOCAL INITIATIVE BY MEXIC
CITY FOR THOSE WHO DON'T GO TO
THE GYM, GYM COMES TO THEM
300 SO-CALLED URBAN GYMS WER
SET UP LAST YEAR
300 MORE THIS YEAR AND THE SAM
AGAIN NEXT YEAR.
WITH MEDICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL
DEVICE AND CHECKUPS ALL PROVIDED
FREE BY THE CITY
PREVENTION, THE MAYOR SAYS, IS
CHEAPER THAN TREATMENT
MARIA GONZALEZ IS THE CITY'S
PSYCHOLOGIST IN CHARGE OF THES
URBAN GYMS
>> WE WANTED PEOPLE TO HAVE --
>> AND WHEN YOU SEE THE PEOPLE
WHO COME TO YOU, ARE THE
HEALTHY?
>> MOST OF THEM, NO.
BUT THEY COME HERE AND THE
START WANTING TO HAVE A BETTER
WAY OF LIVING A HEALTHY LIFE,
HEALTHY STYLE OF LIVING.
>> Reporter: THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGE IS TO START THEM
YOUNG.
ALL RESEARCH SHOWS THAT IF A
CHILD IS OVERWEIGHT AT AGE 5
MOST ALWAYS WILL BE.
THEY DON'T KNOW MUCH ABOUT NEW
TAXES, BUT THE GOVERNMENT SAYS
HIGHER TAXES ON JUNK FOOD WILL
MAKE FAMILIES BUY LESS AND THA
CHILDREN WILL BE HEALTHIER AND
LIVE LONGER.
>>> THE WHOLE WORLD IS GAINING
WEIGHT
FIND OUT WHERE THE U.S. FITS I
AND SEE WHAT OTHER COUNTRIES ARE
DOING TO BATTLE THE BULGE.
VISIT NEWSHOUR ON PBC.ORG.
>>> ON THIS MEMORIAL DAY, WE
WANTED TO INTRODUCE YOU TO E
DREW, A MILITARY VETERAN, WH
WAS INSPIRED TO MAKE SOMETHING
LASTING.
OUR STORY NARRATED BY SCOT
SCHAEFFER WAS PRODUCED BY PB
STATION KQED IN SAN FRANCISCO.
>> WHEN I GREW UP, MY LIFE WAS
NOT INCREDIBLY EASY.
MY MOTHER WORK ALL THE TIME.
I REALLY HAD TO LEARN ON MY OW
HOW TO HOLD MYSELF UP.
PHOTOGRAPHER IS ONE OF THOSE
THINGS I USED AS A VEHICLE FOR
SELF-EXPRESSION BECAUSE I FELT
IN MY HEART I WAS AN ARTIST.
>> WORKING OUT OF A MAKE SHIFT
DARK ROOM USING HIGHLY REACTIV
CHEMICALS, LARGE PLATES AND
CAMERA, ARTIST ED DREW I
PUTTING HIS OWN SPIN ON A 19th
CENTURY ART FORM
>> I LIKE IT BECAUSE IT'S NO
JUST SOMETHING SIMPLE.
YOU HAVE TO SET IT UP AND YO
HAVE TO BE REALLY PHYSICAL WIT
IT
YOU CAN'T JUST CLICK
YOU'RE BASICALLY MAKING A PHOT
ON A PIECE OF METAL, YOU'R
EXPOSING IT, DEVELOPING IT AND
FIXING IT ALL RIGHT THEN AND
THERE.
>> TIN TYPE PORTRAITS REACHE
THE HEIGHT OF THEIR POPULARITY
DURING THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR.
INEXPENSIVE, DURABLE AND
RELATIVELY SIMPLE TO MAKE, TIN
TYPES WERE THE FIRST AVAILABLE
TO THE MASSES INCLUDING HUNDREDS
OF SOLDIERS HEADED OFF T
BATTLE
>> THESE IMAGES OF SOLDIERS,
SOMETIMES THESE ARE THE LAST
IMAGES THAT THEIR FRIENDS AN
FAMILY WOULD SEE OF THEM ALIVE
>> HE'S NO STRANGER TO THE RIFBS
OF COMBAT.
HE'S SERVED IN THE MILITAR
SINCE HE WAS 18 AND IS AN AERIAL
GUNNER FOR THE CALIFORNIA AI
NATIONAL GUARD
WHEN HE WAS DEPLOYED T
AFGHANISTAN LAST SPRING, H
BROUGHT HIS CAMERA ALONG
>> IT CAME FROM THE FACT THAT
WAS GOING TO AFGHANISTAN AND I
WANTED TO RECORD THE PEOPLE WH
I WORK WITH IN THE MOS
HUMANISTIC WAY POSSIBLE.
I REALLY WANTED TO FOCUS ON THIS
BROTHERHOOD I BELONG TO, THESE
COMBAT RESCUE INDIVIDUALS.
I WOULD DO TIN TYPES IN BETWEE
MISSIONS
SOMETIMES WHILE I WAS DOING TI
TYPE, I WOULD GET CALLED ON
MISSION, SO I WOULD LITERALL
HAVE TO DROP EVERYTHING AN
SPRINT OUT TO THE AIRCRAFT TO DO
MY JOB
>> DREW'S TIN TYPES WERE THE
FIRST TO BE MADE IN A COMBAT
ZONE SINCE THE CIVIL WAR
>> WHEN I CAME BACK FROM M
DEPLOYMENT, I WAS A LITTLE
FRUSTRATED BECAUSE I HAD PURPOSE
OVER THERE
I GOT BACK AND I KIND OF HAD T
FILL THAT VOID
HOW I DID THAT WAS I HAD VER
SPECIFIC IDEA THAT I WAS GOING
TO USE MY ART TO SHOW THE BEAUTY
OF PEOPLE.
>> NOW DREW IS WORKING WIT
AT-RISK YOUTH AS A GARDE
PROJECT IN SAN BRUNO
>> I GOT A SPECIAL JOB FOR YOU
>> KATHERINE SNEED DIRECTS THE
PROGRAM.
THEY LEARN LIFE SKILLS THROUGH
ORGANIC FARMING.
THE VEGETABLES THEY HARVES
FEEDS THOUSANDS THE OF NEEDY SAN
FRANCISCOENS EVERY YEAR.
>> THE YOUNG PEOPLE WHO WORK
WITH US EVERY DAY ARE THE PEOPLE
WHO LIVE IN AREAS OF THE CIT
WHERE THERE'S A LOT OF CRIME,
LOT OF POVERTY
THEY MANAGE TO OVERCOME AL
THAT
THEY'RE UNDERSTANDING THEY HAV
A FUTURE
>> RIGHT ABOUT THERE
YEAH
>> THAT'S PERFECT.
>> THE REASON I CHOSE THIS I
BECAUSE THEY'RE MAKING SOMETHING
OF THEMSELVES.
THEY'RE GOING TO COLLEGE BUT
THEY'RE ALSO EARNING MONEY HERE.
>> DREW HOPES BY MAKING THES
PORTRAITS HE CAN HELP SHATTE
NEGATIVE STEREOTYPES THAT OFTE
FOLLOW YOUNG MEN OF COLOR.
>> GOOD, GOOD, I'M GLAD.
>> THE KIND OF PHOTOGRAPHY THA
ED IS DOING WITH US IS
PARTICULARLY MEANINGFUL BECAUS
IT HAS THAT HISTORICAL
REFERENCE.
AFTER THE EXPERIENCE OF SLAVERY,
MANY FOLKS HAVE SAID, OH
GARDENING ISN'T FOR ME
I THINK THAT ED'S TAKING
PICTURES OF US, USING THIS OLDER
WAY, IT'S COME FULL CIRCLE
THE GARDEN IS NOW A PLACE THAT
CAN UPLIFT AND NOT JUST HOLD YOU
DOWN
AND HOPEFULLY HIS PICTURES CAN
DEPICT THAT IN A WAY THA
TOUCHES PEOPLE
>> THE IMPERFECTIONS OF TI
TYPES IS WHAT I REALLY ENJOY
AND I THINK IT'S A GREAT ANALOGY
FOR LIFE
LIFE IS NOT PERFECT.
WHETHER THEY HAVE A LITTLE SPECK
ON THEM OR A LITTLE STREAK O
SILVER THAT JUST KIND OF WEN
AWRY, YOU ACCEPT THE IMAGE JUS
LIKE YOU ACCEPT THE PERSON
>>> MEMORIAL DAY WEEKEND CAN
ALSO BE VERY DIFFICULT FOR THE
FAMILIES SURVIVING THE LOSS OF A
SERVICE MEMBER
ONLINE AT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG, WE
HAVE A CONVERSATION ABOUT THIS
WITH THE TRAGEDY ASSISTANC
PROGRAM FOR SURVIVORS.
>>> THIS IS PBC NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY
>>> AND NOW THE LATEST ON
STORY THAT THE NEWSHOUR HAS BEEN
FOLLOWING FOR SOME TIME NOW.
A NEW AND GROWING OUTBREAK O
POLIO OVERSEAS
80% OF THE NEW CASES ARE I
PAKISTAN
ITN'S MILITARY CORRESPONDENT
JOHN RAY HAS THE LATEST FROM
THAT NATION.
>> Reporter: ON KARACHI'
STREETS YOU CAN MEET MANY WH
SERVE AS A REMINDER OF THE LIMBS
AND LIVES WASTED BY POLIO AN
UNDERSTAND JUST HOW DESPERAT
THE BATTLE IS TO PREVENT ITS
RETURN
AT TIMES THAT BATTLE CAN SEE
LIKE A REAL WAR.
A SIMPLE VACCINE OFFER
IMMUNITY
EVEN THE PROMISE OF GOOD HEALT
COMES AT THE POINT OF A GUN.
IT MIGHT SEEM STRANGE THAT I
TAKES AN ARMED ESCORT TO DELIVER
VACCINES, BUT THERE ARE GOOD AND
DISTURBING REASONS FOR THE GUNS.
IN TRYING TO SAVE CHILDREN
THESE HEALTH WORKERS ARE
THEMSELVES RISKING THEIR LIVES
THE TALIBAN HAS TARGETED THE
TEAM, WOMEN LIKE THIS DOCTOR
>> THEY'RE ATTACKING US.
>> Reporter: RELIGIOUS LEADERS
HAVE ISSUED A FATWA ORDERING
THEIR PARENTS TO BRING THEIR
CHILDREN FOR VACCINATION
BUT MANY REMAIN DISTRUSTFUL.
IT IS WELL KNOWN THAT TH
PROGRAM IS TO HUNT OSAMA BIN
LADEN.
MANY ARE MURDERED ADMINISTERIN
THE VACCINE.
SHE DIED FOR HER COUNTRY, HE
MOTHER TELLS US.
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR
MARGARET WARNER CONTINUES HE
REPORTING FROM UKRAINE FOLLOWING
THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION THERE.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.